README.md, before:

# lingua-franca
![Illustration](images/illustration.png)

## Table of content
- [lingua-franca](#lingua-franca)
  - [Table of content](#table-of-content)
  - [Getting started](#getting-started)
    - [Install](#install)
    - [Use](#use)
  - [Context](#context)
  - [Product](#product)
    - [Description](#description)
    - [Screenshoots](#screenshoots)
  - [Project files](#project-files)
  - [The team](#the-team)

## Getting started
### Install
- Open git bash
- Clone the repository : `git clone https://github.com/christian-aucane/lingua-franca.git`
- Move in the repo : `cd lingua-franca`
- Launch install.sh : `source scripts/install.sh`
### Use
- Open git bash
- Launch run.sh : `source scripts/run.sh`
- Open navigator and go to this URL : http://127.0.0.1:5000/

## Context

### Introduction:
- The titled "Lingua Franca" is designed as an educational project guide aimed at developing a text translation tool. It outlines a practical approach for learners to understand and implement text translation using modern technologies, specifically leveraging APIs and web frameworks.

### Building the Application:
- Flask Framework: Introduction to Flask, setting up the web application where users can input text for translation.
User Interface: Creating a user-friendly interface with fields for entering text, selecting source and target languages, and utilizing an automatic language detection feature.

### Integrating Google Translation API:
- API Connection: Detailed instructions on how to connect to the Google Translation API using a Python script.
Sending Requests and Receiving Translations: How to send user-inputted text to the API and display the translated text back to the user.



## Product
### Description
It's a web translation web application that uses Flask to create an API that connects to the public Google Translation API via the googletrans library.
### Screenshoots
![Initial page screenshoot](images/screenshoots/initial.png)
*Initial page screenshoot*
![Loading page screenshoot](images/screenshoots/loading.png)
*Loading page screenshoot*
![Success page screenshoot](images/screenshoots/success.png)
*Success page screenshoot*
![Error page screenshoot](images/screenshoots/error.png)
*Error page screenshoot*

## Project files
- **README.md** : Project details (this file)
- **.gitignore** : Files ignored by Git
- **requirements.txt** : Project dependencies
- **scripts/** : Bash scripts
    - **install.sh** : Install project
        - Create virtual environment
        - Install dependencies
    - **run.sh** : Run server
        - Activate virtual environment
        - Run src/app.py
- **src/** : Source files
    - **templates/** : Contain HTML templates
        - **index.html** : The interface
    - **forms.py** : Contain TranlsationForm class
    - **translation.py** : Contain functions to connect to the translation API
    - **app.py** : Contain the Flask app, and routes
        - `index()` : Display the interface
        - `detect()` : Detect the language
        - `translate()` : Translate the text
    - **static/** : Static files dirs
        - **js/** : JavaScript modules
            - **constants.js** : Constants namespaces
                - `DomElements` : Namespace for usefull HTML Dom elements
                - `ApiRoutes` : Namespace for API routes
            - **utils.js** : Utility functions namespaces
                - `FormUtils` : Namespace for utility forms functions
                    - `updateFormFields(form, formData)` : Update the form with the FormData object
                    - `displayErrors(errors, defaultParentElement, errorMessageClass="error-message")` : Display the errors in the fields
                - `ImgUtils` : Namespace for utility images functions
                    - `displayIcon(element, src)` : Change src and display img
            - **ajaxFunctions.js** : AJAX functions namespace
                - `AjaxFunctions` : Namespace for AJAX calls
                    - `detectLanguage(formData)` : Send a POST request to detect-language/ API route
                    - `translate(formData)` : Send a POST request to translate/ API route
            - **script.js** : Main JS script
                - `submitTranslationForm()` : Submit the form to the backend and modify display with the response
                - `reverseLanguages()` : Reverse source and target languages and submit form
                - `EnableDisableReverseLanguages()` : Enable/disable reverse languages button
                - `addFormChangeListeners()` : Add listeners on form fields to submit form when a field is modified
                - `changeFlag(select)` : Change Flag icon
                - `init()` : Initialize event listeners and put navigator language in target language
            - **mapCountries.js** : Map languages and countries
                - `languageToCountryMap` : Object to map countries with languages
        - **css/** : CSS files
            - **normalize.css** : To normalize styles
            - **variables.css** : Variables (Colors ...)
            - **style.css** : Project style
        - **images/** : Images files
            - **status/** : Status images
                - **success.png** : Success image
                - **error.png** : Error image
                - **loading.png** : Loading image
            - **auto_language.png** : Flag icon for automatic detection language
            - **background.png** : Background image
            - **favicon.ico** : Icon
            - **reverse_languages.png** : Image for reverse languages button
  
## The team
3 students in the 1st year of the Bachelor IT program specializing in Artificial Intelligence at [La Plateforme_](https://laplateforme.io/) in Marseille, France

- Christian Aucane
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/christian-aucane/">
    <img src="images/logos/linkedin.png" width=25>
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/christian-aucane">
    <img src="images/logos/github.png" width=25>
  </a>
- Bruno Coulet
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/bruno-coulet/">
    <img src="images/logos/linkedin.png" width=25>
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/bruno-coulet">
    <img src="images/logos/github.png" width=25>
  </a>

- Léo Carrey
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/leo-carrey/">
    <img src="images/logos/linkedin.png" width=25>
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/leo-carrey/">
    <img src="images/logos/github.png" width=25>
  </a>

Commit message:

[ADD] enhancing the user interface in readme

README.md, after:

# lingua-franca
![Illustration](images/illustration.png)

## Table of content
- [lingua-franca](#lingua-franca)
  - [Table of content](#table-of-content)
  - [Getting started](#getting-started)
    - [Install](#install)
    - [Use](#use)
  - [Context](#context)
  - [Product](#product)
    - [Description](#description)
    - [Screenshoots](#screenshoots)
  - [Project files](#project-files)
  - [The team](#the-team)

## Getting started
### Install
- Open git bash
- Clone the repository : `git clone https://github.com/christian-aucane/lingua-franca.git`
- Move in the repo : `cd lingua-franca`
- Launch install.sh : `source scripts/install.sh`
### Use
- Open git bash
- Launch run.sh : `source scripts/run.sh`
- Open navigator and go to this URL : http://127.0.0.1:5000/

## Context

### Introduction:
- The titled "Lingua Franca" is designed as an educational project guide aimed at developing a text translation tool. It outlines a practical approach for learners to understand and implement text translation using modern technologies, specifically leveraging APIs and web frameworks.

### Building the Application:
- Flask Framework: Introduction to Flask, setting up the web application where users can input text for translation.
User Interface: Creating a user-friendly interface with fields for entering text, selecting source and target languages, and utilizing an automatic language detection feature.

### Integrating Google Translation API:
- API Connection: Detailed instructions on how to connect to the Google Translation API using a Python script.
Sending Requests and Receiving Translations: How to send user-inputted text to the API and display the translated text back to the user.

### Enhancing the User Interface:
- Aesthetic Improvements: Tips on using Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and JavaScript to make the application visually appealing and more functional.

## Product
### Description
It's a web translation web application that uses Flask to create an API that connects to the public Google Translation API via the googletrans library.
### Screenshoots
![Initial page screenshoot](images/screenshoots/initial.png)
*Initial page screenshoot*
![Loading page screenshoot](images/screenshoots/loading.png)
*Loading page screenshoot*
![Success page screenshoot](images/screenshoots/success.png)
*Success page screenshoot*
![Error page screenshoot](images/screenshoots/error.png)
*Error page screenshoot*

## Project files
- **README.md** : Project details (this file)
- **.gitignore** : Files ignored by Git
- **requirements.txt** : Project dependencies
- **scripts/** : Bash scripts
    - **install.sh** : Install project
        - Create virtual environment
        - Install dependencies
    - **run.sh** : Run server
        - Activate virtual environment
        - Run src/app.py
- **src/** : Source files
    - **templates/** : Contain HTML templates
        - **index.html** : The interface
    - **forms.py** : Contain TranlsationForm class
    - **translation.py** : Contain functions to connect to the translation API
    - **app.py** : Contain the Flask app, and routes
        - `index()` : Display the interface
        - `detect()` : Detect the language
        - `translate()` : Translate the text
    - **static/** : Static files dirs
        - **js/** : JavaScript modules
            - **constants.js** : Constants namespaces
                - `DomElements` : Namespace for usefull HTML Dom elements
                - `ApiRoutes` : Namespace for API routes
            - **utils.js** : Utility functions namespaces
                - `FormUtils` : Namespace for utility forms functions
                    - `updateFormFields(form, formData)` : Update the form with the FormData object
                    - `displayErrors(errors, defaultParentElement, errorMessageClass="error-message")` : Display the errors in the fields
                - `ImgUtils` : Namespace for utility images functions
                    - `displayIcon(element, src)` : Change src and display img
            - **ajaxFunctions.js** : AJAX functions namespace
                - `AjaxFunctions` : Namespace for AJAX calls
                    - `detectLanguage(formData)` : Send a POST request to detect-language/ API route
                    - `translate(formData)` : Send a POST request to translate/ API route
            - **script.js** : Main JS script
                - `submitTranslationForm()` : Submit the form to the backend and modify display with the response
                - `reverseLanguages()` : Reverse source and target languages and submit form
                - `EnableDisableReverseLanguages()` : Enable/disable reverse languages button
                - `addFormChangeListeners()` : Add listeners on form fields to submit form when a field is modified
                - `changeFlag(select)` : Change Flag icon
                - `init()` : Initialize event listeners and put navigator language in target language
            - **mapCountries.js** : Map languages and countries
                - `languageToCountryMap` : Object to map countries with languages
        - **css/** : CSS files
            - **normalize.css** : To normalize styles
            - **variables.css** : Variables (Colors ...)
            - **style.css** : Project style
        - **images/** : Images files
            - **status/** : Status images
                - **success.png** : Success image
                - **error.png** : Error image
                - **loading.png** : Loading image
            - **auto_language.png** : Flag icon for automatic detection language
            - **background.png** : Background image
            - **favicon.ico** : Icon
            - **reverse_languages.png** : Image for reverse languages button
  
## The team
3 students in the 1st year of the Bachelor IT program specializing in Artificial Intelligence at [La Plateforme_](https://laplateforme.io/) in Marseille, France

- Christian Aucane
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/christian-aucane/">
    <img src="images/logos/linkedin.png" width=25>
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/christian-aucane">
    <img src="images/logos/github.png" width=25>
  </a>
- Bruno Coulet
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/bruno-coulet/">
    <img src="images/logos/linkedin.png" width=25>
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/bruno-coulet">
    <img src="images/logos/github.png" width=25>
  </a>

- Léo Carrey
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/leo-carrey/">
    <img src="images/logos/linkedin.png" width=25>
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/leo-carrey/">
    <img src="images/logos/github.png" width=25>
  </a>
